# Mahjong-Machine-in-Python
This is a software development project that I completed in Python while I was bored during COVID quarantine in Summer 2020. My mother has been playing Mahjong for my entire life, and finally during the COVID-19 quarantine, she taught me and the rest of my family how to play. While bored over Summer 2020 in quarantine, I created a program that helps novice Mahjong players (like myself) with the game (using the 2020 card). In this program, I calculate the probability of each possible winning Mahjong hand taking into account the player's own hand and the tiles that have already been thrown by them and other players (this makes more sense if you know how to play the game). In a GUI that allows the player to enter their own tiles and the tiles being thrown by other players, the program recommends which tiles to discard and previews the player's most probable winning hands. Unfortunately, this program requires a number of seconds to run all of the probability computations, so I do not recommend using it if you are playing with experienced players (they may get annoyed at you, as I've found to be the case). However, if you're just learning to play the game, it may help you to see which hands are most achievable. I intend to continue working on this program in hopes of cutting down the program's run time between turns (i.e., tiles thrown).

# About the 2020 Card
The National Mah Jongg League (https://www.nationalmahjonggleague.org/store.aspx#) releases a new card each year that details the possible winning hands players can achieve to win the game. This program can be updated in future years by uploading cards for future years in a separate Jupyter Notebook (as was done here with the 2020 Card). 

# Instructions to Run
To run the "Mahjong Machine GUI.ipynb" script, you will need to download the supporting scripts ("2020_Card.ipynb" and "Functions.ipynb") as well as install and load several Python packages (pandas, matplotlib, random, collections, and tkinter).
